For whom was this book written?
Since 2000, we have taught statistics to over 5000 life scientists. This sounds a
lot, and indeed it is, but with some classes of 200 undergraduate students,
numbers accumulate rapidly (although some courses have involved as few as
6 students). Most of our teaching has been done in Europe, but we have also
conducted courses in South America, Central America, the Middle East, and
New Zealand. Of course teaching at universities and research organisations
means that our students may be from almost anywhere in the world. Participants have included undergraduates, but most have been MSc students, postgraduate students, post-docs, or senior scientists, along with some consultants
and nonacademics.
This experience has given us an informed awareness of the typical life
scientist’s knowledge of statistics. The word ‘‘typical’’ may be misleading, as
those scientists enrolling in a statistics course are likely to be those who are
unfamiliar with the topic or have become rusty. In general, we have worked
with people who, at some stage in their education or career, have completed a
statistics course covering such topics as mean, variance, t-test, Chi-square test,
and hypothesis testing, and perhaps including half an hour devoted to linear
regression.
My name is nnamdi Ewuzie.
I am from Ihembosi.
There are many books available on doing statistics with R. But this book
does not deal with statistics, as, in our experience, teaching statistics and R at
the same time means two steep learning curves, one for the statistical methodology and one for the R code. This is more than many students are prepared to
undertake. This book is intended for people seeking an elementary introduction
to R. Obviously, the term ‘‘elementary’’ is vague; elementary in one person’s
view may be advanced in another’s.
R contains a high ‘‘you need to know what you are doing’’ content, and its
application requires a considerable amount of logical thinking. As statisticians,
it is easy to sit in an ivory tower and expect the life scientist to knock on our door
and ask to learn our language. This book aims to make that language as simple
vii
as possible. If the phrase ‘‘absolute beginner’’ offends, we apologize, but it
answers the question: For whom is this book intended?
All authors of this book are Windows users and have limited experience with
Linux and with Mac OS. R is also available for computers with these operating
systems, and all the R code we present should run properly on them. However,
there may be small differences with saving graphs. Non-Windows users will also
need to find an alternative to the text editor Tinn-R (Chapter 1 discusses where
you can find information on this).
Datasets used in This book
This book uses mainly life science data. Nevertheless, whatever your area of
study and whatever your data, the procedures presented will apply. Scientists in
all fields need to import data, massage data, make graphs, and, finally, perform
analyses. The R commands will be very similar in every case. A 200-page book
does not offer a great deal of scope for presenting a variety of dataset types,
and, in our experience, widely divergent examples confuse the reader. The
optimal approach may be to use a single dataset to demonstrate all techniques,
but this does not make many people happy. Therefore, we have used ecological datasets (e.g., involving plants, marine benthos, fish, birds) and epidemiological datasets.
All datasets used in this book are downloadable from www.highstat.com.
Newburgh Alain F. Zuur
Newburgh Elena N. Ieno
Den Burg Erik H.W.G. Meesters
viii Preface
Acknowledgements
We thank Chris Elphick for the sparrow data; Graham Pierce for the squid
data; Monty Priede for the ISIT data; Richard Loyn for the Australian bird
data; Gerard Janssen for the benthic data; Pam Sikkink for the grassland data;
Alexandre Roulin for the barn owl data; Michael Reed and Chris Elphick for
the Hawaiian bird data; Robert Cruikshanks, Mary Kelly-Quinn, and John
O’Halloran for the Irish river data; Joaquı´n Vicente and Christian Gorta´zar for
the wild boar and deer data; Ken Mackenzie for the cod data; Sonia Mendes for
the whale data; Max Latuhihin and Hanneke Baretta-Bekker for the Dutch
salinity and temperature data; and Antonio Mira and Filipe Carvalho for the ´
roadkill data. The full references are given in the text.
This is our third book with Springer, and we thank John Kimmel for giving
us the opportunity to write it. We also thank all course participants who
commented on the material.
We thank Anatoly Saveliev and Gema Herna´dez-Milian for commenting on
earlier drafts and Kathleen Hills (The Lucidus Consultancy) for editing the text.
i
Ncheta
Ugoo
Oluoma
Akachukwu
Emerie
Chukwudi
Adaobi
Ifeoma
Daddy
Mummy